notes.md, before:

Notes to self.

flow of the app creation (use for future app creation):

Start by setting up the database
1. elephantSQL(4) - development, test, preview, production
2. connect them to dbeaver

Fork and clone the repo, or make a new react app

Update the backend .env file with the connection URL's to your ElephantSQL database instance.

You should not need to make changes to the ./front-end/.env file unless you want to connect to a backend at a location other than http://localhost:5001.

Run npm install to install project dependencies.

Open two terminals:
Run npm run start:dev to start your server in development mode when you cd into backend, and npm run start when you cd into frontend.

connect to render.com for deployment

**working on branches, push to and pull from gitHub often.

refer to notes on using gitHub --
--use of terminal and gitKraken


Decide how you would like your workflow to go:
refer to module 37 Connecting it All may help

Key Terms
-Inside-out development flow
A full-stack workflow that involves making changes starting with the backend, and fully implementing the feature for the current layer before making any changes to the layer above it
==horizontal slice workflow starting:
---- PostgreSQL - database
---- Express API - back end
---- React App - front end


-Outside-in development flow
A full-stack workflow that involves making changes starting with the frontend, fully implementing a small part of the feature through each layer of the architecture
==vertical slice workflow starting:
---- React App - front end
---- Express API - back end
---- PostgreSQL - database

Make Migration and seed files

npx knex migrate:make <tableName>
--fill out new table info, export up and down

npx knex migrate:latest
--will make the tables
npx knex migrate:rollback
--deletes the tables
***do more research on difference between these and npx knex migrate:up, npx knex migrate:down


- the seeds js file will need to require the seeds json file for that table to see the data
npx knex seed:run

After getting the database setup and seeded, 
the first thing you should do is make sure you can see the data.
--get it to appear on screen

Refer to module 37.5
You will start in the frontend project by creating a new route and minimal UI.

Create Layout.js/Routes.js and create the route paths.

Create components for the routes to go to. Start with a Creation component, i.e, CreateReservation.js.

Add a createReservation() function in the api.js, This function will eventually send a POST request to add the data to the backend API route.

Where do you want the information to display?
A Homepage or dashboard

-This is where you will set the useState, make a useEffect to make the request, map through the data, and then use the return to display it how you want.


now in the backend, add the app.js, router.js, controller.js, 
--you can use postman to see if the requests are working

Now that ui and  api are connected:
require in the controller.js and make the:
service.js

error handling files


creating the table using 
npx knex migrate:make tableName
and fill in the export up and down...
ex.
exports.up = function (knex) {
  return knex.schema.createTable("observations", (table) => {
    table.increments("observation_id").primary();
    table.decimal("latitude", null);
    table.decimal("longitude", null);
    table.integer("sky_condition");
    table.timestamps(true, true);
  });
};

exports.down = function (knex) {
  return knex.schema.dropTable("observations");
};

npx knex migrate:latest

Use DBeaver to check that the record was added to the database.

Return to the UI and refresh the home page

------------------
For this project.
making a kanban board using gitHub projects. Others to consider: trello, jira...

Letting the tests run to see what is failing, then working off the tests will get us in the mindset of:
-- the tests should be made before you start building the rest of your app, so it works based off the tests you preset.


work on one user story at a time, work on one item in that user story, do not get overwhelmed, it is ok to ask for help.
I am proud of you >:3
----LaToya Simon 11/06/22

Styling - 11/06/22

Progressive enhancement
A mobile-first approach that involves designing for the smallest screen first, then progressively adding features and rearranging the layout to take advantage of larger screen sizes

----------
deploying on heroku

https://rest-reservation-backendtoya.herokuapp.com/ | https://git.heroku.com/rest-reservation-backendtoya.git

https://rest-reservation-clienttoya.herokuapp.com/ | https://git.heroku.com/rest-reservation-clienttoya.git


----------
3.134.238.10
3.129.111.220
52.15.118.168


-------
NODE_ENV=production npm run knex -- migrate:latest

NODE_ENV=production npx knex migrate:latest

Commit message:

notes added to git ignore, and notes added to fix render.com setup issues

notes.md, after:

Notes to self.

flow of the app creation (use for future app creation):

Start by setting up the database
1. elephantSQL(4) - development, test, preview, production
2. connect them to dbeaver

Fork and clone the repo, or make a new react app

Update the backend .env file with the connection URL's to your ElephantSQL database instance.

You should not need to make changes to the ./front-end/.env file unless you want to connect to a backend at a location other than http://localhost:5001.

Run npm install to install project dependencies.

Open two terminals:
Run npm run start:dev to start your server in development mode when you cd into backend, and npm run start when you cd into frontend.

connect to render.com for deployment

**working on branches, push to and pull from gitHub often.

refer to notes on using gitHub --
--use of terminal and gitKraken


Decide how you would like your workflow to go:
refer to module 37 Connecting it All may help

Key Terms
-Inside-out development flow
A full-stack workflow that involves making changes starting with the backend, and fully implementing the feature for the current layer before making any changes to the layer above it
==horizontal slice workflow starting:
---- PostgreSQL - database
---- Express API - back end
---- React App - front end


-Outside-in development flow
A full-stack workflow that involves making changes starting with the frontend, fully implementing a small part of the feature through each layer of the architecture
==vertical slice workflow starting:
---- React App - front end
---- Express API - back end
---- PostgreSQL - database

Make Migration and seed files

npx knex migrate:make <tableName>
--fill out new table info, export up and down

npx knex migrate:latest
--will make the tables
npx knex migrate:rollback
--deletes the tables
***do more research on difference between these and npx knex migrate:up, npx knex migrate:down


- the seeds js file will need to require the seeds json file for that table to see the data
npx knex seed:run

After getting the database setup and seeded, 
the first thing you should do is make sure you can see the data.
--get it to appear on screen

Refer to module 37.5
You will start in the frontend project by creating a new route and minimal UI.

Create Layout.js/Routes.js and create the route paths.

Create components for the routes to go to. Start with a Creation component, i.e, CreateReservation.js.

Add a createReservation() function in the api.js, This function will eventually send a POST request to add the data to the backend API route.

Where do you want the information to display?
A Homepage or dashboard

-This is where you will set the useState, make a useEffect to make the request, map through the data, and then use the return to display it how you want.


now in the backend, add the app.js, router.js, controller.js, 
--you can use postman to see if the requests are working

Now that ui and  api are connected:
require in the controller.js and make the:
service.js

error handling files


creating the table using 
npx knex migrate:make tableName
and fill in the export up and down...
ex.
exports.up = function (knex) {
  return knex.schema.createTable("observations", (table) => {
    table.increments("observation_id").primary();
    table.decimal("latitude", null);
    table.decimal("longitude", null);
    table.integer("sky_condition");
    table.timestamps(true, true);
  });
};

exports.down = function (knex) {
  return knex.schema.dropTable("observations");
};

npx knex migrate:latest

Use DBeaver to check that the record was added to the database.

Return to the UI and refresh the home page

------------------
For this project.
making a kanban board using gitHub projects. Others to consider: trello, jira...

Letting the tests run to see what is failing, then working off the tests will get us in the mindset of:
-- the tests should be made before you start building the rest of your app, so it works based off the tests you preset.


work on one user story at a time, work on one item in that user story, do not get overwhelmed, it is ok to ask for help.
I am proud of you >:3
----LaToya Simon 11/06/22

Styling - 11/06/22

Progressive enhancement
A mobile-first approach that involves designing for the smallest screen first, then progressively adding features and rearranging the layout to take advantage of larger screen sizes

----------
deploying on heroku ---- this is going away soon

https://rest-reservation-backendtoya.herokuapp.com/ | https://git.heroku.com/rest-reservation-backendtoya.git

https://rest-reservation-clienttoya.herokuapp.com/ | https://git.heroku.com/rest-reservation-clienttoya.git


----------


-------
render.com
Redirect and Rewrite Rules
Add Redirect or Rewrite Rules to modify requests to your site without writing code. You can use URL parameters to capture path segments, and wildcards to redirect everything under a given path.

source: /*
destination: /index.html
action: redirect

render backend and render client
--this will make the tables on the production database
NODE_ENV=production npx knex migrate:latest
NODE_ENV=production npx knex seed:run
